The client application
domain is highly creative.
The best available technologies
are publicly licensed and have
very supportive communities.
This means there are very low
overheads to contributing to
client application development.
Training is available online
that takes a few years practice.
To become a competent developer.
A good developer working for an
application in production could
quickly become an essential element of
a team due to an intimate knowledge
of an application source code.
Some of my favorite innovations
and innovations in this area are
dynamic hypertext Markup Language,
which was introduced in 1997.
The standard is maintained by
the World Wide Web Consortium,
the latest HTML5 version includes
new elements and application
programming interfaces for
interactive web applications.
HTML5 was given worldwide Web Consortium
recommendation status in 2014.
Both of both the cabana and
anonymous feedback web applications
used by the learning IoT
platform use features of HTML5.
Application containerization products
virtualized operating systems to deliver
software in packages called containers.
Containers are isolated from one
another and bundle their own software
libraries and configuration files.
They can also communicate with each other.
Delivering software using
this method allows for stable,
consistent and automated deployment
for software applications.
Docker is a popular platform for application
containerization and was published
as an open source release in 2013.
If we reflect on our understanding
of the learning IoT platform,
our Eclipse Mosquitto broker was
deployed on the server using a
publicly available Docker container.
Web service store files and
broadcast them over the Internet.
Each file in a web server
is accessible for a web URL.
These types of servers are
used for hosting websites.
The Apache Web server is the most
popular type of web server in
use today and was published on
an open source license in 1995.
Engines is a high performance
web server that serves content
faster and supports load balancing
amongst other features.
The engines web server was also published
on an open source license in 2004.
The anonymous Feedback web application
and learning IoT certificates are
distributed using web servers.
Dynamic web applications often require
controllers defined by source code
to execute calculations outside of
a web browser before rendering.
Node JS is a very popular open source,
cross platform JavaScript runtime
environment that enables this functionality.
Node JS was first published in 2009.
The enormous feedback web web
application is supported by the
Node JS runtime environment.